# HTS_2024_Metagenomic_data_analysis

The individual assembly of short reads using megahit with k-Mer specification was utilized. The results showed that 228719 contigs have been used for the sample.
The assembled sequences was evaluated using metaQUAST and the report generated in html filed stored in the metaquast results folder under the results directory. The assembly statistics from the metaQUAST analysis showed a 31.6% genome fraction to the sequence ERR2231568 and reference genome Leuconostoc_Pseudomesenteroides_KCTC_3652 has the highest reference genome fraction of 84.16%. The results also showed a total of 78 relocation for the sample with reference genomes Leuconostoc_Pseudomesenteroides_KCTC_3652 and Tatumella_morbirosei both having 16% as the highest relocation percentage. 
Similarly, 437419 mismatches have been observed in the sample with the reference genome Pantoea_rwandensis having the highest number of mismatch (115,619) followed by Tatumella_morbirosei (106, 020). Based on the results generated from metaQUAST, the Icarus contig browser was also used to visualize the most accurate assessment and analysis. The contig alignment viewer was also used to visualize and explores each reference genome. However, with a k-mer length of 91, we visualize the de novo assembly using bandage. To visualize assembly graph, we open bandage and load graph using the file menu and the draw graph option. The results indicates that there are 287, 491 nodes, 114, 733 edges, and 192, 849 connected components of the assembly graph with percentage dead ends of 70.71%.
Conclusion
This study was able to assemble metagenomics sequence data using megahit, and perform an evaluation of the assembled genomes using metaQUAST, visualize the assembly graph to gain more insight into the complexities of the microbial communities in general, and identify different microorganisms present in the microbial community across different fermentation stages.
